# Stock Price Prediction Pipeline

This project aims to build a machine learning pipeline for predicting stock
prices using various features extracted from historical data. The pipeline
consists of several components, including data ingestion, data visualization,
feature engineering, and model building.

## MLOps Integration

In this project, we have integrated MLOps practices to enhance the efficiency,
reproducibility, and collaboration of our machine learning workflow. The
primary tools utilized for MLOps in this project are **DVC (Data Version
Control)** and **MLflow**.

### DVC (Data Version Control)

DVC is an open-source version control system designed specifically for
managing machine learning projects. It allows data scientists and engineers to
track changes in data, models, and experiments, similar to how Git manages
code. Here are some key features and benefits of using DVC:

  * **Data Versioning:** DVC enables us to version our datasets, ensuring that we can easily revert to previous versions if needed.
  * **Pipeline Management:** DVC allows us to define and manage complex data pipelines.
  * **Integration with Git:** DVC integrates seamlessly with Git, allowing us to keep our data and code in sync.

#### Example of DVC Usage

    
    
    dvc init  # Initialize DVC in the project
    dvc add data/raw_data.csv  # Add the raw data file to DVC
    git add data/raw_data.csv.dvc data/.gitignore  # Track the DVC file in Git
    

### MLflow

MLflow is a powerful platform for managing the machine learning lifecycle,
including experimentation, reproducibility, and deployment. It provides tools
for tracking experiments, packaging code into reproducible runs, and sharing
and deploying models. Key features of MLflow include:

  * **Experiment Tracking:** MLflow allows us to log parameters, metrics, and artifacts for each experiment run.
  * **Model Registry:** MLflow provides a centralized model registry, enabling us to manage and version our machine learning models.
  * **Integration with Various Frameworks:** MLflow supports various machine learning libraries and frameworks, making it flexible for different use cases.

#### Example of MLflow Usage

    
    
    import mlflow
    
    with mlflow.start_run():
        mlflow.log_param("model_type", "RandomForest")
        mlflow.log_metric("mse", mean_squared_error(y_true, y_pred))
        mlflow.sklearn.log_model(model, "model")
    

## Project Structure

The project is organized into several key scripts, each responsible for a
specific aspect of the pipeline:

  * **Data Ingestion:** `data_ingestion.py`
  * **Data Visualization:** `data_visualization.py`
  * **Feature Engineering:** `feature_engineering.py`
  * **Model Building:** `model_building.py`

### Data Ingestion

The `data_ingestion.py` script is responsible for loading and transforming the
dataset. It includes robust logging to track the data loading process.

    
    
    import pandas as pd
    import logging
    
    logger = logging.getLogger('data_ingestion')
    
    def load_data(data_url: str) -> pd.DataFrame:
        df = pd.read_csv(data_url)
        logger.debug('Data loaded successfully.')
        return df
    

### Data Visualization

In `data_visualization.py`, we create insightful visualizations to understand
the data better.

    
    
    import seaborn as sns
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    
    def visualize_distribution(df: pd.DataFrame, stock_name: str):
        sns.histplot(df[df['Stock_Name'] == stock_name]['Price'], kde=True)
        plt.title(f'Distribution of {stock_name} Prices')
        plt.show()
    

### Feature Engineering

The `feature_engineering.py` script handles the creation of new features that
enhance model performance.

    
    
    from sklearn.preprocessing import LabelEncoder
    
    def convert_stock_names_to_ids(df: pd.DataFrame, column: str) -> pd.DataFrame:
        le = LabelEncoder()
        df[column] = le.fit_transform(df[column])
        return df
    

### Model Building

Finally, in `model_building.py`, we build and evaluate our models.

    
    
    from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestRegressor
    
    def train_model(X_train, y_train):
        model = RandomForestRegressor()
        model.fit(X_train, y_train)
        return model
    

## Conclusion

By integrating DVC and MLflow into our stock price prediction pipeline, we
enhance our ability to manage data and track experiments efficiently. This
project not only demonstrates the power of MLOps but also serves as a robust
framework for predicting stock prices. Join us in exploring the exciting world
of financial predictions!

